The first topic I chose from the github list is expenditure on the military as a share of GDP. A popular theme in the literature surrounding expenditure on military as a share of GDP is evaluating the macroeconomic relationship between GDP growth and expenditure on military. The prevailing consensus is that increased expenditure on the military stifles economic growth, with some countries that serve as exceptions to the trend. One paper that I read evaluated the impact on economic growth in Israel, detailing potential positive externalities of technological progress and scientific innovation produced by militarisation. Research branching off of this topic could focus on military expenditures in the U.S., examining not only aggregate trends in military spending but differentiating within spending trends. This research could examine the proportion of military spending dedicated towards R&D, commercial innovation, etc., to a quantifiable measure of innovation (say patents). 

The second topic I explored was the economics of electricity reliability, with the paper I initially read from JEP giving a broad overview of the electricity demand and supply, the pitfalls and impact of not meeting supply, as well as how technological changes may change the energy system to rely more on economic incentives. One popular topic in this area is the value of lost load, which quantifies the economic impact of supply disruptions. Another area is reliability pricing, which examines market design and pricing schemes to incentivise energy suppliers. A topic that has gained more recent popularity is the effects of climate change on energy demand. One interesting potential area of research that could be done here is using econometric methods, such as time series analysis, to measure the relationship between weather and energy demand. Potential relationships to explore here could be: weather volatility and demand, increasing temperatures and demand, increased snowfall and demand. 

The third topic I chose from my own interest is the efficacy of private equity in markets. A prominent topic in corporate/financial economics has been evaluating the effectiveness of private equity firms entering markets and managing companies (what does this mean for consumers, employees, markets, profitability, etc). The paper chose to base my Litmap around focused on the performance of private equity that specialized in hotels compared to agnostic private equity firms to see if there was difference in various key performance indicators of hotel performance. I was able to read through other papers that broadly evaluate the effects of private equity on industries like healthcare, construction, etc., with many purporting the success of private equity. Potential research here could be looking into differences of health outcomes of private equity controlled facilities versus independent health facilities. This would expand the scope of what ‘success’ looks like for private equity companies, and could lead to interesting insight into the relationship between private equity and health. 
